So we learned a lot about components
with the data property which should be a function, with the fact that we shall only have one root
element in our component template
and with the well methods of registering our component globally like this and locally with the components
property. I want to do this here now too
and I want to connect our components with some other things we learned earlier.
Let me create a new vue file here,
I'll name it ServerStatus.vue,
this is kind of the file naming convention we currently use
by the way. You give your vue components this naming where you start with a capital character and then
you have well this casing where each sub-word in your title, in your name also begins with a capital
character like status here.
This will create our ServerStatus component though
of course this file name is totally irrelevant for the selector you choose to use in the end because
you set up the selectors like this in the vue component method or as a string in the components property
for local components anyways.
So in the ServerStatus component, I'll copy my code from the home component and here I basically want to
use the exact same status, so or the same set up I have my template where I have the ServerStatus
which I can change with a button
but now let's imagine our application manages the state of several servers
and so we want to be able to track the state of each server and change it.
So in the home component, I will no longer output the ServerStatus,
I will no longer manage data here, instead here I will only want to loop through all my servers I got.
And for this, I need a for loop but I also need to have access to the ServerStatus component.
Now I could register ServerStatus globally but here, I want to do this locally,
so I'll add the components method and here, I set up a key as a string and I'll name it app-server-status.
Therefore I will rename my global components here so that I don't get problems which I will simply name
app servers, also adjust app servers here in the template of course to use this new selector we set up
here globally and then in the home component, I have my local app-server-status selector
and I want to refer to the component in the ServerStatus.vue file. Well for this, I need to import it
here in this script tag which of course is possible here too,
that's normal javascript code and I can use this import syntax since we're using ES6 since our project
will compile to ES5 and allows us to use features like this which is very handy to split up the file
or the project over multiple files.
So here I will then import ServerStatus and the name here is totally up to you
again, we don't imply a name here when we export just the default but it makes sense to use the file name
so that you easily see where this is coming from, from and then it is from ./ServerStatus.vue
file.
Now here I simply assign the object we are importing from there to the selector and therefore I can
now use app-server-status in my template
but as I said, I want to loop through this and have multiple servers, no problem.
I can use v-for and simply loop through it by saying server in 5 to loop from 0 to 5
if you remember this, but with this set up we would get an error because even though we only have one
element here, our code,
this will result in five elements in the end
so we would have again more than one root element.
So again wrap it inside a div to have valid code here
and with that, if you hit control s and save this, it should recompile and once this reloads here, you
should see all these servers. As a side note if you have problems with it reloading,
always feel free to cancel this process with Control-C and rerun npm run dev.
So now we got all our servers which you can switch manually
and now we're using both the global, the app servers home component and a local component here.
And with that, you saw how you can use them, create them in single files, with this single file set
up,
important here,
keep in mind you have to have one root element.
You also saw how to export them with export default and import them in other files
due to us using ES6 which is required for this whole multi-file setup and you saw how to register
them both globally and locally.
You also saw how to use them with v-for because you can use your newly created components like normal
html tags,
you can use them with v-for, with v-if, all the things we learned
and with that I'd say it's time to practice this.